You've learned how CNNs will take an input image,
and through a series of layers,
transform that input into an output that's much smaller in the x and y dimensions,
but much greater in depth.
Along the way, the CNN is discarding spatial information from
the input image and isolating high level information about its content.
Some of this structure can also be thought of as a kind of data compression;
compressing from an image into something like a feature vector,
which is basically a feature map produced after an input has
gone through a series of layers squished into a vector shape.
This is part of what makes up something called an autoencoder,
which is what you'll learn about in this lesson.
An autoencoder has two main components: an encoder that compresses some input data,
and a decoder that reconstructs data from the compressed representation.
You might be wondering why is this kind of structure even useful?
It ends up being useful in a number of cases.
Autoencoders are used in a traditional data compression sense,
in that they can learn to reduce the dimensionality of any input.
Then, anyone can use a compressed representation to share it,
or view it and so on,
faster than they could with the original input.
You might think of something like a jpeg or mp3 file type,
which contain explicit rules for compressing images and audio.
The difference is that an autoencoder learns
efficient data compression and decompression functions instead of having them designed,
encoded by a human.
Autoencoders have shown the most promise in
image de-noising techniques and in filling in missing data.
This structure will also come up again as you learn about
generative models that can take in an image and
transform it into a related space such as from
gray scale to color or from low to high resolution images.
The encoder and decoder here are both built with neural networks.
Generally, the whole network is trained by
minimizing the difference between the input and output.
In this way, the middle layer will be a compressed representation of
the input data from which you can reconstruct the original data.
The key aspect of an autoencoder is its ability to
compress an image such that its content is still maintained.
Then later, you may be able to use
this compressed representation to generate something else.
In this lesson, I'll show you how to build autoencoders in PyTorch.
I'll start with a simple example where we'll compress images.
Then, since this is ImageData,
we'll improve it by using convolutional layers